
1. Introduction 
This guide explains the process that needs to be followed for users to access the NCL Windows Virtual 
Desktop Environment (WVD) environment and Microsoft office 365 applications, including Microsoft 
OneDrive.
Access Method
You can access your WVD from any Windows or macOS device, either via a web browser or through the 
Windows Desktop Application. 
1- Using Windows Desktop Application on Windows machine.
2- Using Windows Desktop Application on Apple Mac.
3- Using a web browser.
It is recommended that for the optimum user experience, your WVD is accessed through the Windows 
Desktop Application.
Prior to beginning the login process to your WVD:
Have you logged onto the @ncld.nhs.uk network before? (for example the NCLGP laptops)
• If Yes, then you will need to change your password before being able to access your WVD via 
the following URL: 
https://account.activedirectory.windowsazure.com/ChangePassword.aspx?BrandContextID=O3
65&ruO365=https%3a%2f%2fportal.office.com%2fEditProfile15.aspx
Now left click here
• If No, then please follow the steps below: 
Step1 : 
Enter your *@ncld.nhs.uk username and temporary password (note: the first part of your 
username is the same as your NHSmail username but instead of *@nhs.net it is *@ncld.nhs.uk
and your temporary password will be emailed to you when your account is first created).
Please left-click on https://rdweb.wvd.microsoft.com/webclient (or copy and paste this link into
a web browser). Enter your @ncld.nhs.uk username and click on the ‘Next’ button.
3
Step 2: 
Please Enter your temporary password and click ‘Sign in’.
Step 3: 
You will now be asked to change your Password. Please choose a new password and left click on 
the ‘Sign in’ button.
Step 4: 
You will now need to add additional Security Verification details to your account. Please select 
the ‘Authentication Phone’ option, enter your mobile number and check ‘Send me a code by text
message’ and click on ‘Next’. 
4
Step 5: 
You will receive a text message with your authentication code. Please enter that authentication
code and click on ‘Verify’. 
Step 6 : 
You will now be logged into the WVD portal. 
5
2. Using the Windows Desktop Application on Windows 
Install Microsoft Remote Desktop App from the link below. Please note that you may require
administrator rights on the machine you are installing the app onto.
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktopservices/clients/windowsdesktop#install-the-client
1) Once you have run through the installation process, you will be presented with the below 
screen. Click the ‘Subscribe’ button.
2) Enter your ‘@ncld.nhs.uk’ username and click ‘Next’.
6
3) Enter your Password and click ‘Sign in’.
4) You should now receive a text message on your registered mobile device which provides you 
with an Authentication code, enter this code and left click on the ‘Verify’ button.
5) Your WVD will be added to the app now, double click on the WVD to launch it (circled in red 
below)
7
6) Enter your Password and tick the ‘Remember me’ box, then left click the ‘OK’ button.
You will now be logged into your Windows Virtual Desktop.
8
3. Using the Windows Desktop Application on macOS 
Please download the Windows Desktop App from the below link or from the App Store
https://apps.apple.com/app/microsoft-remote-desktop/id1295203466?mt=12
1) Once downloaded, open the app and click on ‘Add Workspace’ to add the WVD machine link
9
2) Add https://rdweb.wvd.microsoft.com in the workspace area and click on the ‘Add’ button.
3) Please use your ‘@ncld.nhs.uk’ login username and click on ‘Next’.
10
4) Enter your Password and click ‘Sign in’.
5) You should now receive a text message on your registered mobile device which provides you 
with an Authentication code, enter this code and click ‘Verify’.
6) Your WVD will now be added to the app, double click on WVD to launch it (circled below in red)
11
7) please enter your ‘@ncld.nhs.uk’ login username and password
You will now be logged into your Windows Virtual Desktop.
12
4. Using a web browser to access your WVD 
1) Open a web browser (IE/Firefox/ Google Chrome/ Edge / Safari) and enter 
https://rdweb.wvd.microsoft.com/webclient in the address bar.
2) Enter your username, this will end in ‘@ncld.nhs.uk’ and click ‘Next.’
3) Enter your Password and click ‘Sign In’.
13
4) You should now receive a text message on your registered mobile device which provides you 
with an Authentication code, enter this code onto your browser and click ‘Verify’.
5) You will now be presented with your WVD (circled in red below), please double click on the
image to launch your WVD.
14
6) If you wish, tick the boxes below to allow connection to your local Printer and clipboard (Please 
note this Printer is not the Printer in your practice, this will only give access to your local printer 
connected to your personnel laptop / PC and click ‘Allow’. Please note that local printers are 
not supported by IT.
7) You will now be prompted to re-enter your Username and Password. This is the same username 
and password that you used in steps 2 & 3 and click ‘Submit’.
You will now be logged into your Windows Virtual Desktop.
15
5. How to log in to Office 365 & OneDrive from your WVD 
1) After successfully logging into your WVD, please search for Word from within the search bar 
(Bottom left corner search bar).
16
2) Double click on the ‘Word’ App to open Word on your WVD. You will be now given an 
option to log into your Microsoft account, which is your ‘@ncld.nhs.uk’ account. Click on 
‘sign in’.
3) Please enter your ‘@ncld.nhs.uk’ username (xxxxx.yyyyy@ncld.nhs.uk) and click on ‘Next’.
4) Please enter your Password and click on ‘Sign in’.
17
5) You will now be asked for confirmation to use the same account across your WVD. Please 
tick ‘Allow my organisation to manage my device’ and click on ‘Yes’. 
Please press ‘Done’ to complete the activation process.
You will now be logged into Office 365 on your WVD including OneDrive. Please make sure you 
save your files to your OneDrive folder ONLY as files saved onto the local drives within your 
WVD are not backed up.
18
6. How to configure Outlook 365 within your WVD 
1) Please search for ‘Outlook’ from within the search bar (Bottom left corner search bar) and 
left click on the ‘Outlook App’ icon to launch the Outlook 365 application.
2) You will be now presented with the screenshot below. Please remove the @ncld.nhs.uk
email address from within the ‘Email address’ box, type in your personal NHSmail email and 
left click on the ‘Connect’ button.
19
3) Left click on the ‘Office 365’ icon.
4) It may take a minute or two for your account details to be synced with the WVD so please 
be patient. If you are prompted for a password. Please enter your NHSmail password. You 
will now be presented with the screenshot below. Please untick ‘Set up Outlook Mobile on 
my phone, too’ and left click the ‘Done’ button to complete your Outlook 365 setup.
20
7. Frequently Asked Questions 
Q. I already have @ncld.nhs.uk credentials. However, I cannot log in to my WVD. What can I do?
A. Please try changing your password using the link below
https://account.activedirectory.windowsazure.com/ChangePassword.aspx?BrandContextID=O3
65&ruO365=https%3a%2f%2fportal.office.com%2fEditProfile15.aspx
Q. I am having trouble with my browser, and it is not letting me change my password or sign into 
the WVD portal. What do I do?
A. Please delete your internet browser’s history, cache and data. If you do not know how to that, 
you will be able to access the web pages you are having difficulties with by using the private 
browsing mode from within your web browser to access the URLs.
Q. I am experiencing EMIS Web errors which are causing issues with data entry, prescribing, using 
templates and launching documents. What do I do?
A. This is due to EMIS rolling out patch updates and there being a version mismatch. We kindly ask 
all users to always access EMIS Web via the Configuration Switcher on the NCLGP laptops, even 
if you only accessing a single instance as this will ensure the latest EMIS Web updates are 
installed.
Q. I’m still having issues logging in, what do I do?
A. please call 020 3688 1881 and select option 1 or alternatively send an email to 
nclccg.gpsupport@nhs.net for assistance.
Q. Why do I have to keep logging into the Docman 10 Web instance every time I log back onto my 
WVD as I do not have to this on my physical device?
A. Unfortunately Docman 10 wasn’t designed to work in this way and you will have to to log in via 
the web every time you log in on your WVD. Also please remember to leave your browser open 
to ensure you are still connected to Docman 10 within that session.
Q. Can I use Chat, Meetings, Calling, Collaboration Applications such as Teams and accuRx for video 
within my WVD?
A. unfortunately Windows Virtual Desktop does not support Teams and similar applications. Video 
calling is not supported either as the physical hardware does not exist within your WVD to 
initiate a video call (no camera or microphone). A workaround is to use the ‘Windows Desktop 
Application’ on your local device to access your WVD and to install the application(s) you 
require onto your local device. You can change the screen size of your WVD and have for 
21
example, Teams and accuRx video on your local machine in a window side by side with your 
WVD.
Q. My WVD is going into sleep mode, why is this happening?
A. If your WVD is idle for 15 minutes, it will go into sleep mode. You will need to enter your 
password to log back in. 
Q. After resetting my password / activating my new account, I am trying to log into my WVD on my 
regular browser, but I cannot log in. Why am I not able to log in? 
A. Please clear your cookies/cache/temp files on your browser, if not please use private / Incognito 
browser. 
Q. I can’t Get Multiple Screens working for my WVD when using the browser?
A. Unfortunately, multiple screens are not supported in browser mode, but the remote desktop 
app fully supports multi-screens.
Q. How do I get the @ symbol working within my WVD when using a Mac?
A. To get @ on your WVD: Please click Shift + “ on your Mac keyboard
22
Q. How can I get the Caps Lock working on my WVD within my Mac?
A. To get caps on, press the button highlighted below. 
